Maxwell's equations describe electromagnetic phenomena: generation of EM fields & waves, their interaction with the environment, and coupling to the electrical parameters voltage and current.
$$\begin{alignat}{2}
	\nabla \cdot \mathbf{D} & = \rho \qquad && \nabla \times \mathbf{E} && = -\frac{\partial\mathbf{B}}{\partial t} \\
	\nabla \cdot \mathbf{B} & = 0 \qquad && \nabla \times \mathbf{H} && = \mathbf{J} + \frac{\partial \mathbf{D}}{\partial t} \\
\end{alignat}$$
At low frequencies, i.e., when the circuit is small compared to the wavelength of the signal under consideration, we may use _lumped models_ to describe electrical behaviour (e.g., using capacitors, inductors, and resistors & applying Kirchhoff's circuit laws).
At high frequencies, when the circuit dimensions are comparable to or larger than the wavelength of the signal, signal propagation is described using transmission lines. These are, in turn, described by the full forms of Maxwell's equations.
## Faraday's Law
Faraday's law describes electromagnetic induction and the concept of inductance. This is an important concept in the theory of grounding, where loop inductance significantly affects the flow of current.
$$\nabla \times \mathbf{E} = -\frac{\partial\mathbf{B}}{\partial t} \implies \oint_{\partial S} \mathbf{E} \cdot d\mathbf{l} = -\frac{\partial}{\partial t} \iint_S \mathbf{B} \cdot d\mathbf{s}$$
$$u = \frac{d\lambda}{dt} = L \frac{di}{dt}$$
## Ampere's Law
Ampere's law notes that all current must flow in a closed loop, either as conduction current (through a conductor) or as displacement current (through a non-conducting medium). This is also important for the theory of grounding, since all current must return to its source.