The inductance of a loop can be divided into two parts:
- Internal inductance $L_{int}$ of the conductor forming the loop
- External inductance $L_{ext}$ attributed to the loop area
In most cases, the external inductance (i.e., the loop area) dominates the total.
## External inductance
External inductance is attributed to the magnetic flux that occurs outside the conductors. This flux (and therefore the external inductance) is highly dependent on the area of the loop.
## Internal inductance
Internal inductance is attributed to the magnetic flux occurring inside non-ideal conductors. Internal inductance is typically quite small ($\approx$ 50 nH/m at DC) and decreases with frequency, since the flux in the conductor decreases due to the skin effect.
## Partial inductance
Since inductance is mostly a function of the loop area, it is difficult to identify which part of a loop contributes most to its inductance. Partial inductance allows us to break a loop into segments, each of which has a certain contribution to the total. This concept only considers external inductance.
$$L = \frac{\phi}{i} = \frac{1}{i} \iint_S \mathbf{B} \cdot d\mathbf{s} = \frac{1}{i} \oint_{\partial S} \mathbf{A} \cdot d\mathbf{l} $$
The inductance of a loop enclosing area $S$ is given above. Using Stokes' theorem, the surface integral is transformed into a contour integral along its boundary $\partial S$. Dividing the boundary into segments $c_i$ results in a summation of partial inductances $L_i$.
$$L = \sum_{i = 1}^{n} \left( \frac{1}{i} \oint_{c_i} \mathbf{A} \cdot d\mathbf{l} \right) = \sum_{i = 1}^n L_i$$
## Skin effect
Consider a conductor with some time-varying current flowing through it. At high frequencies, the time-varying magnetic field due to this current will induce _eddy currents_ in the conductor, which _oppose_ the change in magnetic field.
$$ \mathbf{J} = \sigma \mathbf{E} \qquad \nabla \times \mathbf{E} = -\frac{\partial \mathbf{B}}{\partial t} $$
As a result, most of the current flows on the surface ("skin") of the conductor, and the inside is not utilized. In fact, current may flow in the opposite direction in the middle of the conductor. This causes an increased resistance and decreased inductance with increasing frequency.
For round conductors, an analytical solution can be found in cylindrical coordinates in terms of the Bessel functions.
$$Z_{int}(\omega) = \frac{k \rho}{2\pi r} \frac{J_0(kr)}{J_1(kr)} \qquad k = \sqrt{\frac{\omega \mu}{j\rho}}$$
For rectangular and flat conductors (such as foil or PCB traces) only approximate analytical expressions can be found.
## Proximity effect
If an external magnetic field links with the conductor (e.g., due to current in an adjacent wire), this field will also induce eddy currents so as to oppose the change in magnetic flux. This results in current moving to one or the other side of the conductor. The proximity effect also increases the resistance of the conductor.

Consider two parallel wires, one carrying the forward and the other the return current. The proximity effect acts to reduce the loop area (= inductance), forcing the current to flow where the wires are closest.
This effect is quite apparent in coaxial cables, where the return current through the shield concentrates on the inside. Almost none of the return current flows over the outside of the shield (but external noise currents can!).